*music*
I made a bunch of notes, like usual, because I don't trust my brain track of the shit that I want to talk about.
Same here.
There it is.
I wish that wasn't the case.
I was like, "Yeah, I just committed the memory and then like, I know my brain will fail."
Do you want to start taking those like memory booster things that are almost certainly garbage?
Yeah, I've lived into them.
Oh, really?
I don't think anything really works except Adderall.
No.
*laughs*
Yeah, I never even looked into what I just assumed.
Like, there's just nothing that's going to help.
There's a lot of shit that seems to be catering to like the Silicon Valley crowd,
and all these brain boosters and memory answers and performance enhancers and all just seems like garbage.
You have tried a few of them. Never noticed any difference.
I think B vitamins are the most effective thing I've ever had.
Yep.
Everything else is kind of like...
And if you notice a lot of these have B vitamins, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Essentially, it's just a way to make people overpay for vitamin B.
Or maybe just like not living in a perpetual state of feeling constantly overwhelmed and stressed out beyond belief would help my memory.
That's ridiculous.
That's the thing, dude.
Like the most proven shit boils down to sleep.
Mm-hmm.
Caffeine.
Vitamin B.
Adderall.
That'll boost the shit out of your brain.
Nothing else will fucking top any of that.
Oh, Mr. B-Man joining us.
Got a visitor.
Hey, buddy.
What do you have to say about Bheringer?
Yes, I agree.
Clones.
(laughter)
I'm mad that we're...
Oh, buddy.
You want me to be a mom?
Fading his basement again.
They say they're just bringing rare stuff back, but then they do an Intelgels quad VCA.
(laughter)
I know, right?
I've never got about that already.
The foreplay?
Yeah.
I guess, I mean, we're recording.
I guess we should just segue into episode 31.
Well, should we ask...
...some foreplay.
Bad boys permission?
I mean, obviously he's come down here to tell us something.
One of it may be you have to stop recording.
You came down here to tell us, "Get the fuck out."
Yeah.
Back again, face to face.
Yep.
The second time.
And a long time.
For episode 31.
It's true.
It's all true.
Sipping on some green tea, courtesy of Nick.
Dash of honey.
A dash of honey?
A dash of honey.
It's the first caffeine that I've drank in years.
Really?
Yes.
I mean, I guess it's true.
I know you didn't drink coffee, but I didn't realize there was no caffeine.
Yeah, I cut it all out a few years back.
Mm.
Basically, one of my insomnia was at its peak worst.
I definitely need to eliminate any possible triggers.
Yeah.
So I just eliminated caffeine entirely.
So your tolerance is real low.
So your body gets sucked up.
Extremely locked up.
I think I'm already buzzing a little.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I put an adder all in there when you work.
Fuck, yeah.
And some nutraceuticals and brain pills.
[laughter]
So I guess we can point out early on.
Here, noise in the recording.
It's because we got the air conditioner running.
And we're in the middle of a mild heatwave.
It's hot.
So it's noisy.
Tough shit.
We're hot.
It's sticky sweet.
From our head.
To our feet.
Exactly.
Let's go with that.
She's sipping on there, Dave, with your biodegradable straw.
That biodegradable straw is already falling apart.
That's how they do.
Yeah, this is just cold brew from Big Dog.
I think I've had that in previous episodes.
It's still--
It's typical Dave go to.
It is my go to because it is like 700 feet from my house.
It's very close.
And I like the--
I like the people that work there.
I like the owner.
And it's dog friendly, obviously.
It's a cool place.
If you're in Pittsburgh, you should check it out.
But yeah, the biodegradable straw.
And then you should just move to the sippy cup top that other places have gone with the straw.
And the mall in favor of the straw, let's try not to make things worse for the environment
that we've already fucked up.
But that is not a good solution.
No syrup.
It is still syrup in a sippy cup.
In a sippy cup.
Yeah, I had the sippy cup earlier because I got a nice coffee from bitter ends today.
The sippy cup's the way to go for sure.
It's definitely much better.
If I pulled this out, it may actually just break in half at some point.
That's how bad it is.
You basically-- the clock is ticking.
The second they put that into any moisture.
And I'm long past that point.
It's not structurally sound anymore.
It's like doing it through a newspaper at that point.
But April Machete, at best.
It's probably as you don't have your own special metal straw.
That's a good idea.
What I typically have done is ask them to not put a straw in it whatsoever and just take
the lid off when I go to drink it.
That's unheard of today.
I mean, I'm a bold pioneer.
Just drinking out of a cup.
Yes, yes, it's just crazy.
Right out of it.
But I had to drive over here.
So I was like, "Yeah."
And the ice hit your teeth.
It was cold.
I was like, "Ahh."
Ice on my teeth.
I've literally never heard anyone have that problem before.
Just me?
Okay.
You don't like the metal straws there.
This scare me.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
A little terrified.
I've had that conversation with my sister.
She's like, "Oh, about them."
And I'm like, "Look, when I was a kid, I used to always chew on my pens."
Yeah.
And I had my pen in my mouth.
And one time I reached down to pick something up and I accidentally need the pen that was
in my mouth and stabbed myself into the roof of my mouth.
Oh my God.
In the top of my mouth.
You don't realize it, but it's kind of soft up there.
Oh, yeah.
Anything metal with a little bit of force can go right up in there.
It's kind of freaky.
And then it's real fun to eat for the next two weeks while it heals.
Yeah, it sucks.
Should we add a warning or something to this before we get into this part of it?
Because that made me like a little lightheaded outgrowth that was.
Like just the idea of thinking that was like, you puncture it so bad, like your sinuses
are drained just like directly into your mouth and like you're going to eat food and like,
"No, that's not okay."
Oh God, dude.
Yeah, no.
Morning we're seeking out metal straw sponsorships.
Or we were.
Damn it.
We blew that one too.
And I wasn't afraid of metal straws, but now I absolutely am.
Yeah.
New nightmare fuel for you.
I just assumed I'd keep losing them.
Yeah.
I would not be able to clean it or I'd do that.
Yeah, there's a whole bunch of shit about that I don't like.
Yeah.
Just give me a sippy cup.
Sippy cup.
Yeah, I'm talking about it.
There's like the plastic.
Oh no, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
I don't want you to imagine.
I'm just so weird and I'm singing a Melanie Martinez song.
What now?
Exactly.
Ooh.
Some a nerd.
I don't know who this is.
Can you sing the song for us?
I just did.
Yeah.
That's the chorus.
I don't know who this is.
I don't even think you touch the sliders, which is like the new.
No, well, I guess we could just jump into it, right?
Oh, yeah.
We're kind of.
That's well.
I just want to point out though that all of these influencers are basically, they're racing
for second place behind us.
Right, right.
Now that we're on YouTube and basically dominating, dominating the
dominating it.
Like, yeah, YouTube has never been the same.
Nope.
No, I mean that.
That's what we stuff with in that domain.
Fucking a game up.
But yeah, the LXR2.
A digital drum synthesis machine.
It's weird because we recently started talking about this again, even though it's a pretty
old mission.
I think it was a very last episode.
Because I sat on that kit for a million years and then put it together and was like, "Oh,
shit, this thing's amazing."
And then got the 60 knobs and was like, "This is also amazing."
So the fact that we've very recently unearthed this due to my laziness and procrastination,
like it's weird that we just recently started talking about the Mark I and now the Mark II
basically out of nowhere.
Yeah.
The code read before it had been touched in six years, until apparently now.
That's the thing.
Like this so two versions collaboration between Erica Synths and Sonic potions who put out
the first one who kind of, I mean, I guess they still exist?
They kind of fell off a little.
They fell off a lot.
They made some modules, but that kind of peed it off to the open source.
They never released half the modules that they announced a few hours ago.
Yeah, a lot of it never came out.
Penrose came out and maybe the delay or the filter or something.
I think it might have been the filter.
I know the reverb never came to be.
And their shop is routinely down or closed.
Yeah.
And even just selling kids and products of their existing stuff fell off pretty hard.
So I feel like this is more of a adoption than a collaboration.
We're collaborating by Erica Synths.
Yeah.
They're kind of like, "Oh, we're going to scoop this little baby up off the doorstep and
give it a good home."
And they made the OG metal case for it too.
Yeah.
They started off perspex case.
Yes.
And Erica made the first metal one, which is what you have.
That's the one I have.
What I still have.
That's what I had as well.
I did the game for it.
Yeah.
I did the transplant when I had mine.
I took it out of the plexiglass.
And even had the back that was ready for the CV expansion.
Yeah.
That was the main reason why I got it.
Same.
I bought the expansion kit.
And I was like, "Well, if I'm going to bother to make that, it needs to be in a proper case.
It can accommodate it."
So I got the Erica Synths metal case.
But yeah, it looks like they scooped us up.
They made some enhancements.
Kind of made it their own thing now.
Yeah.
It's smaller.
And like aesthetically, it looks like their other desktop standalone instruments.
So like if you have like an Erica bass line or Zendele or something, like it's going to
look fitting right next to it.
You know what I mean?
It jives with their lineup and their look.
And it kind of looks like it has the basics of the LXR Mark I.
But it has like the additional row.
And it has those faders per channel.
Yeah.
So like that seems like that's a pretty big form factor change as opposed to having this
sort of buttons per channel.
I love sliders on drum machines.
Oh yeah.
You know what I mean?
Totally.
The sliders that they added to like the TR8S and the TR8 and all that.
Yeah.
I like that vibe.
It just makes it that much more friendly for performance.
Absolutely.
The LXR kind of always beg to be used as a performance instrument but it's always kind of too flaky
to rely on.
You know what I mean?
Like people have done it.
You know?
Yeah.
I think you guys have done it.
I mean Morgan do it but I never felt confident enough of mine to use it in a live setting.
I was expected it to short out.
I always know that that's an option in a way that other gear doesn't necessarily have.
And that's why I will not take it out.
Again, even with the 16-obs.
And the 16-obs increased its performance capabilities but like for the volume it still
has those tiny little tiny little knobs where like a fader.
So much more like so much more easy to perform with.
Definitely.
So like now I'm going to preface all of this by saying I was really really tempted by
the Mark 2 when it first came out was first announced and even after that dodgy video.
I don't think I'm getting one.
No?
Yeah.
It's not different enough from the Mark 1 and recently they announced that a lot of
the bug fixes and the new features as they can add to the Mark 2 firmware are going into
the Mark 1 firmware.
So it's kind of fixing some of the problems that I had and it's just not enough new stuff
for me to go.
I'm going to get an entirely new one.
And it does seem like the connectivity wise it's less than the Mark 1.
So I just want to put it out there that like is excited as I am and if I didn't have a
Mark 1 I'd probably scoop this up at a heartbeat.
That's the boat that I'm in.
You know what I mean?
I think in our last episode I was even talking about I've been eyeballing an LXR again.
I was trying to find one second hand already assembled because I didn't really feel like
trying to mess with the kit.
So yeah this is really appealing to me because now I don't have to assemble one.
I don't have to try to find one second hand.
I can just buy the Mark 2 that's already come preassembled and it's got sliders and
whole...
Absolutely.
I thought that I was in.
If I had basically not bothered to make that kit ever I'd probably just sell the kit and
go with the Mark 2.
That was one of the things that was confusing to me about that original video.
It was getting comments on YouTube and on Facebook where it was posted originally.
Like people were being like "Oh my god this sounds great."
You know what I mean?
Things like that.
And I'm like it sounds identical.
Yeah it's exactly.
It's like LXR has been around for like a decade.
Like the sound engine sounds like as they were scrolling through the presets I think
there was only one that seemed like it utilized the delay.
That was the only preset that sounded unique.
Everything else was like "Nope" that sounds like an LXR.
Which is good.
Like all of you people leaving these comments you can get one right now.
It's been readily available for ten years.
You do see the Mark 2 right?
That means that there was a Mark 1.
The Mark 2 implies a Mark 1 just putting it out there.
Yeah it's appealing to me.
But not because it's like offering any crazy new sonic capabilities.
It's just the fact that it's conveniently already assembled and has a few hardware tweaks like
sliders and shit.
Yeah I'm sure they made it all surface mount because the OG is through hole.
It made it bigger.
Yeah.
So they were able to shrink it down a little.
Bring it back for people who don't want to build one.
Which is understandable.
Because even the 60 knobs I don't know.
You got one of the last kits for that.
I don't like think that's easy to get right now.
Yeah I don't like so.
So even when I got it I kind of assumed I'd have trouble finding one.
So yeah it's not readily available.
And it adds, I mean the LXR is already pretty big.
This adds basically the same footprint right beside it.
So between the two of them you know it's a pretty substantial amount of space where Mark
2 everything about it smaller.
Yeah it is a shame they couldn't get the trigger out on it though.
That's super nice.
And really the gate out it's like there as long as the drum sound is which when you figure
that out it's like okay that's pretty cool.
Yeah it is.
Totally agree.
I made a overview list of some of the pros and cons compared to the original.
Well they had honest.
Well I guess just in case nobody is familiar.
If they haven't ever heard of an LXR or heard our previous episodes before it's a drum machine
at its most basic function.
But it's six channels with seven sequencer tracks.
The seventh extra track being dedicated to the open hat.
It has generative functions, step probability.
You can generate full sequences at random.
It's got micro steps.
It's got parameter locks.
It's FM.
It's FM and digital but it also has some basic sampling, well sampler capabilities can't
sample into it but you can play waves that you can layer as transients or just as the
track itself.
The only thing that I know off the top of that is comparable to is the electron machine
drum which at this point goes for three times the fucking price of an LXR.
It's not uncommon to see machine drums at this point selling for close to three grand.
Whereas the LXR ones sold for like I think the kits were like what 500 bucks.
You can get the mark ones used now since the mark two announcement for under that and the
mark two is selling retail at $590 USD so under $600 you're getting a pretty fully
fucking functional digital drum machine.
Plus the per track features you got an LFO per track that you can assign to any other
track if you want.
That kind of set the standard for me when I've had my LXR the first time and I've been
struggling to figure out why manufacturers don't do that on other gear like electron
digitac or the digitone.
Like the machine drum did that was the only one who'd arbitrarily assign LFOs and everything
after that it was just one per track.
That was an electron device.
You know what I mean?
What the fuck is this open source LXR device can do that today.
Why the fuck can't you find that on a you know electrons most current gear 10 years
later.
I actually just thought of something about the second LXR wonder if they increased the
parameter lock memory.
Because on the first one you can run out real easily.
Actually you end up overwriting them is what you don't maybe realize at first.
True.
That's how it was kind of like an electron device where it was almost infinite or more
than you need.
That would be a pretty big selling point for me maybe.
I would hope so because they seem to have boosted the sequencing memory at least.
It's up to 64 step now instead of 16 like on the OG.
It's another nice feature for sure.
That might also come in the firmware update for the Mark 1's.
With the subset and sub sequences per step you could expand that beyond 16.
True.
So they've always had a little bit more than just the 16 that you get on the surface.
But there are still limitations to that too.
How much sub sequencing you could do.
And then like I just have a basic list of the improvements of Mark 2 over Mark 1.
Sliders.
No assembly required.
64 step sequencing.
They've added a delay effect which from what I can tell is global.
Seems global.
Unfortunately I would be way more excited if that was a per track delay.
That would be pretty cool.
And from the brief demo I saw of the delay it seems like I can get down into like really
tight almost car plus strong type territory which is what I was really curious about.
That's what I wanted to see.
Because that's kind of been something I've been messing with a lot lately on drum sequencing.
It's very tight delays in my feedback path and my overdrive path.
You know what I mean to add extra texture.
I used to do software a lot back in the day and something I've been getting back into.
Well even with hardware I used to use the old realistic reverb as like a very tight slap
back delay/feedback texture in the mix.
You know what I mean on per channel shit.
So you can't really find many drum machines that have that type of like per track effect.
You know what I mean.
And a lot of electron stuff also doesn't have dedicated outs that you can route through
pedals to achieve that.
So it's frustrating.
LXR has four dedicated outputs that you can assign any track to.
So that's nice.
Very nice.
And I think I step over most electron shit as well.
Perfecting.
And then the last pro I have listed there is future proofing.
It doesn't seem to be any reason to doubt that Erika will continue to like keep tabs
on this.
You know what I mean.
And fix any bugs.
Update firmware.
Possibly add more features whereas like sonic potions has just been kind of like stale with
that for many years.
And then for the cons like Nick pointed out no CV trigger in out panel anymore.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, does have the analog clock in out which is nice that they kept
that at least.
It's always I wonder if they're going to fix that because that was always one of the weirdest
parts.
It didn't ever work right for me.
And I just assumed that was my shitty soldering like I thought I fucked up my expander.
Even at its best there was one way that I kind of got it to work.
But it wasn't something's wrong with it.
I remember you pointed that out to me because like I struggle with it for a whole afternoon.
I'm like what the fuck am I doing wrong?
Why can't I sync this right through clock properly?
And then you point out you're like no it just doesn't really work man.
I was like okay.
Thankfully being late to the game I tried it once.
I was like maybe it's somehow working for me didn't work.
I'm like okay I'm just I'm just giving up I already knows this problem.
So yeah no no CV panel and it's unclear if Mark two will be available as a kit which
might be a pretty big con.
They say it's not.
Not at all.
Okay.
I mean that doesn't really deter me but I'm sure that's going to be a pretty big issue
for some people.
And then also unclear if the best L 60 knob companion controller will be compatible in
any way with this.
That'd be a real bummer if they didn't allow that to work.
Especially if they're basing it off the same original 0.37 firmware that does support the
60 knobs you would think at the it's if you do nothing it's supported.
So hopefully that's still there.
And if it is I mean that and Bastol goes back to actually making them and making them a
little bit more readily available.
And this might be the motivation for them to do it.
Yeah worst case maybe they have to change some of the assignments for CC and you just
need to do preset for the 60 knobs I would hope.
Because that's the one thing they did address is the polyphonic MIDI input basically.
So they added that feature from the B Clark firmware but that's the very thing that broke
the 60 knobs compatibility.
So they'll have to make some choices it'll be interesting to see how that works.
And it's also that B Clark firmware version is pretty old at this point.
I wonder if it's something else that could have been done.
Right.
Maybe they just have a new CPU and more you know capability now or something.
So Greg at this point do you think you're going to try to get one?
I think absolutely yeah.
I don't want to pre-order it.
But it seems like I mean there's already people with the demo units it's out there
in the wild a little bit.
It seems like this is coming up soon.
During the Erika since they expected to start shipping early August.
All like the major manufacturers that I've looked at are already accepting orders for
it like Detroit modular perfect circuit control model that shit.
So and Erica has a pretty good track record for actually delivering on shit that they
do put together.
So I want to wait till it's actually released but yeah I think I'll definitely be getting
one in the near future.
Nice.
If I have to sell a couple more things to come up with the funds then I'll do it but I think
it's great.
It looks like great value for the money.
Yeah.
And I've been tempted by getting an LXR1 already recently.
So yeah I think it's kind of like a no brainer for me to scoop one of these up.
Yeah such a good drum machine.
Absolutely.
Yeah no use the show of it all the time now.
Feeding for a Mark 2 right now kind of even though it's ridiculous and goes back on something
I've said in the past but I really kind of want to mark to rhythm new black one.
Same.
It's the sampling feature of it too that's really appealing.
Like here in you and Luke talk about sampling with the tracker and how much fun that is.
Like there's something that's really appealing just getting a new machine like blank starting
over sampling a bunch of modular stuff having two of them kind of DJ style like something
like that.
So I may have sent an email to Electron to see if I can use my past beta testing credentials
to get a discount like I have in the past.
And if they do I might do something rash.
That was the only reason why I don't have one right now is that price.
It's fucking expensive.
It's crazy.
$1,700.
Yeah.
Wait I thought it was even more than that now.
The new black mark teaser you can get them new for $1,700.
Okay for some reason I was thinking there were like 21.
People try to I don't know why.
Or is that just inflation?
I don't think.
People will try to sell them over like for more than you can get a bunch of sweet water
right now.
Okay.
I'm not sure if I had that.
Yeah okay because I thought I was like I swear I saw it being listed at like 2100 on reverb
and stuff like it but that's why it's okay.
It's just market inflation for no good reason.
Because it's for a lot of reasons I didn't want to get one like some of the they're like
dedicated bank buttons now instead of the way on the mark one where you switch between
the top four rows in the bottom four minor shit like the performance control the new one
looks pretty good the screen looks nice the individual outs for everything that I have
stereo pairs that I have on mine that I kind of have to use a weird cable for.
It's a little shit like that.
No it's a little shit that makes a big difference you know I mean like especially for something
I fucking love that much.
Yeah I want the new one.
The rhythm was like the last great drum machine that I really loved as well and but it was
far from perfect you know I mean like the little tweaks that they added to the mark
too I'm like okay those are all things that I was complaining about on the first one.
I'm glad that they addressed some of those things but yeah I don't know at the same
time I'm just like holy fuck this is an expensive machine now you know what I mean.
17 that's a little more just file over two G's though I'm like you know it's like that's
up there with like the fucking Paul Sar yeah yeah and what else that new FM one the the
motor I think it's what is it the DR two or DR one or something.
Yeah I remember when it's called and like the alpha base like yeah all these drum machines
it seemed like they're just covering like what you would expect from a modern drum machine
but like astronomical prices you know I mean like I think it all started with the tempest
really like yeah that was a pricey machine and it raised the bar but at the same time that
machine was like justifiably expensive except for machine did a bunch of new interesting
stuff right same with the machine drum user wave that was like more expensive than my
first fucking car when I bought that thing it is now oh yeah now they're selling for
2300 and up it's really that's the cheapest ones that I found some of them are going for
three grand and up yeah especially break use away of mark two you're gonna pay like 3000
probably it's kind of insane to me that's all the more reason why the LXR are so appealing
right now yeah the mark two because it's like you're not gonna really get anything more
out of a machine drum use away mark two compared to an LXR you know not five times as much
based on that price right yeah it's like you know I don't know I think those will sell
like fucking hotcakes for people who are interested in a machine drum like platform and aren't
a like electron purist you know what I mean if they want that functionality and they're
willing to go with like an off brand you know what I mean like the LXR is kind of like
no brainer there it does highlight I mean we do this annually but I just don't know what
the fuck electron is doing yeah it's just like re-release the machine drum make it based
to like just you know don't even leverage the old code just make a new one that does the
same thing like I don't know I don't get them that's a gap still there's a lot of people
listening to be speculating that like they're kind of fuck now with the data line leaving
like they might just be a shell of a company that's like I don't know we know to make these
things that we already designed exactly what we're saying on forums I was reading like
there's a lot of speculation on the mod wiggler thread and even on the lecture knots forum
and shit like that like people were thinking that like there's not going to be anything
new coming from electron at this point except maybe some other thing that they can slap
into like a modal that's like I keep wondering like why don't they do like a physical modeling
one or like any they could make flavors of that that would be interesting yeah I can
like use that but I know that sounds like so surface level easy I don't know what tech
they're really working with there but it's just fucking boring and they used to be like
yeah very innovative they're making all the monies like I don't get it yeah people still
want octet racks people would love a over bridge octet rack and they've been asking
for 10 years for that like so weird you remember the mark ones getting a little crusty there's
some glitch with the samples that still happens where it does this weird like aliasing and
I can like reset the sound and I don't use sounds on there but you know it's kind of
like a pretty set for it I had that happen on mine back in the day I was one yeah I kind
of like I'm annoyed by that what else yeah and thus ends the electron corner I mean it
wouldn't be an episode if we didn't at least bitch about electron it's been a couple of
episodes it's been yeah like we were long overdue I let it this out if they give me a
discount electron is great I even replied to the last email from like two years ago where
they gave me the discount on the lid see you remember you did this before because that
time they were like no we've got a new POS system like that's cool I went to speaking
of I went to Whitewell yesterday I'll try to get the high static deadlines book which
they hadn't stocked before but they had to order and like they had a new point of sale
system and it was just like I fucking crushed that system they're like how do we get a
strange attractor book you know through this and it was like we can just figure it out
tomorrow is what they planned it on it's okay I'm sorry I broke your system it smashed it
to pieces congratulations thanks I think so so great what else is on your list go by
book now yeah I feel like I babbled enough anyone else want to kick off something you
got the I don't even know how to pronounce it though it's I think it's mosque mosque or
Moscow or apparently it's Moscow my partner let me know I'm I'm calling the Moscow because
I just think that's sound analytic yeah W the W yeah the V in the W that seems like a
and the but I also got the expander for it which is a stink Austin on stank Austin keynote
Austin keynote maybe look at that world that Austin keynote because the problem is like
seeing it spelled out like this stank really stands out to me and I want to emphasize that
stink you know yeah that's that cannot be right but this is the new version of it the
mark to this is the mark to of their their roto sequencer from Zalk Zalk Zalk Zalk Zalk
chaos devices a K Zalk yeah exact I still can't do that yeah it's still gonna be exact
axiok full disclosure I only tinkered with the the first version of it a long time ago
like a knob gone yeah like one of those things where I was like half interested just was like
didn't really yeah I don't I don't need this and it is cool but this isn't necessarily what I
look looking for and so this popped up and I watched a video of it and I was like this is adding a
lot of cool stuff it seems like it's taking it out of the you're just going around the circle it's
on a trace line around a circle yeah which is what I was like hoping you know really looking for
with something that was not bound to either a grid or a line so it's on the surface it's eight steps
starting the circle starting at twelve o'clock and going around and you can either have it in step
mode where each step is basically its own unique step or pattern where each of these steps
has its own sub-sequences or sub-pattern within it and there's a lot of control over the individual
patterns themselves so you basically control each one like like how many steps are within the
sub-sequences whether or not and this is the thing that I think is really cool whether or not the
steps within the sub-sequences are fractions within the master step or their own proper steps
and you have control over that per step oh yes that's a nice twist on how the elixir does it
exactly I was and even just playing with I've only had this for like a week now so I've not
this is not going to be a deep dive into this but I feel like I've confident enough now that
this is something I really like so that's why I'm talking about it but being able to switch per step
having like a quick ratchet where I've got some number of steps between the major steps
you know going through them really quickly versus you know expanding expanding this out to like
64 step sequencer at the maximum range and you can switch between pattern and step
on the fly it's all real time switching and there's a custom mode so instead of just going around in
a circle you can you can basically like tap in your own pattern that you want it to be so it'll you
can have it bounce around and I don't know what the upper limit of it I think it's like 256
of these of these custom steps you can have yeah but that's also entering and leaving that mode
is a button so it's really for like performing you can like basically let it go around in a
circle and or you know basically go through its normal pattern and then hit that and then
it'll start bouncing around the pattern that you have and it's additive like if you basically
were like I like you know you get like a number of steps in there you hit it shift and you start
adding more it just tacks them on to the end of your custom sequence oh shit and that also can get
saved as part of the preset and so there's a bunch of presets for actually saving and loading and
includes your custom sequences on top of that you've got random slew and probability all as
non-binary that so that you add a certain amount of like a little bit of random or you crank it up
and it's just basically completely out of step like it's out of step that with the expansion is
CVable so you can just have it like not random at all and then CV send it and then switch between
variations of random slew is the same way slew is actually per step you set what what mode and what
behavior you want per step and the last one is probability so probability is how much it's going
to switch all of the different configurations that you have per step probability itself is a global
setting like you said like you say like i'm going to increase the probability but the response to
that probability is evaluated per step so they don't all just shift in unison you'll have one like
they they're just sort of morphing they're all getting that same probability value but they're
all morphing in unique ways that's cool yeah and it's um and so it has its own clock divider so it
has its like you can have internal rate or it takes a clock in or has a divider and multiplier
you can set the number of steps and what it resets again those are all also CVable
based on and i guess i should point out that every time i keep saying it's CVable a lot of
this is on the expander right so what you get if you just buy this is um you get transport on and off
reset and directions oh the other thing too is like you just just start going backwards and
um external out i'm sorry external clock coming in and then finally you've got gate out and CV out
and what's really interesting and i don't i don't know if the original one had this or not it's not
something i'd like dove into but you can set different steps on and off and if even if you as it's going
over a step if it's off i'm using double quotes here it just means it doesn't send a gate out but
the CV for that step still goes out so like analog style yeah yeah those are a way to make
that not analog style so that if it's off it's off completely and just skips that step no the only
the only the only options you have for that are whether you um whether the gate is trigger half
or full gate is and but yeah otherwise they have the CV continues to uh to go out um as it goes over
that um that's a good question though and oh and the expander adds a couple of things that are just
completely not available on the base model you have to get the expander oh absolutely it's
it's necessary it's not that big like it's you know it's it's they pack a lot of stuff into this
expander um and so this is where you're going to get all of this like the CV for all of the other
stuff um and it also includes a per step out so you actually get for each of them gate for
gate for each of them that's all sorry independently um which i think is one of the which is a pretty
nice feature yeah the surge sequencer that i have that works that way yes um and that's at the high
level question about the randomness is it destructive or can you like have something
CVing the randomness of that and then revert back to your base pattern it was a very good question
it is completely not destructive and that's yeah that's so as you're as you're hitting that random
and especially if you're sending CV to that going absolutely crazy the second you pull that back
or turn that knob back um all the way off it just reverts back to the to the pattern that was in
and you can do some cool stuff um this reminded me a little bit of um uh the electron style of
like when you load a preset in it's instantaneous so you can fuck you can just go absolutely nuts
and so this is like a fully digital sequencer that has like a very analog vibe absolutely okay
there's a very good way to describe it and that's and that's one of the things where i was like
really this is really appealing to me um and i didn't realize it was really what i was looking for
i'm definitely very tempted by this in some ways it has a lot more features than the surge
sequencer but still like eight steps the only thing it lacks is like another CV out and i get
why because that wouldn't make sense for this um then the more i think about it it's more like i
think about how i could use the performer to sequence the surge to sequence this and it's like uh
fuck you've gone down a rabbit hole at that boy indeed yeah it sounds like a fun one though
honestly too i was a little worried that there's a lot of um button combinations uh to do this
uh but honestly within an hour i'm bouncing around this thing doing all of the stuff and um the panel
sort like it has labels for all of it like everything is pretty upfront about what they're like even
when you're going in doing the per step um editing press down the button for that step you're editing
it what is all of the lights then say what is on or off for that step and oh
and a lot of the settings have the same thing like quantize uh you could turn quantize on or off
but quantize is based on different scales and the scales are written right here so you hold down
quantize for a couple of seconds it pops up and whatever if you are quantized to say like uh
chromatic that button's pressed you press another one you're now in a different scale can you see
the rotate sequence?
rotate it at all? no okay that is but i never even thought about doing something that that's a
cool idea but no there's no like this is this step one is kind of fixed to step one i love that
they don't have a screen on it or even like any indicator um because not a totally derail but that
jack mat harlequin's contact which i really like um which they made it simpler at the end of the day
and just like a bank in like four banks of four presets let me set the position and that's
fucking it basically i'm i'm a hundred percent on the same team with that i love it and i'm definitely
going to use it for the uh i'm using i'm going to be using the palette for like live shit
delusions palette and um the harlequin's context and um paired up with plats um and the filter
that's running into it's it's working great i there's a couple times i'm like wait what did i just do
yeah fuck and it's i'm getting confident to the point where i'm feeling okay using a live but i've
definitely at home sitting there kind of going like actually don't know what mode i'm in right now
yep and that is and it's even reading the book i'm just like this is three pages too long
they really should just like pull this back just a little bit and because features that are like
it has a little bit of that vibe of like well we can do it well you didn't actually check to see
if you should right because it's much more confusing knowing like what does that letter stand for
oh that's a sine wave in a minelfo mode i don't really give a fuck about that right now but you're
in a different mode so now all of those shapes mean something else yeah and that's what i was like
oh i just wish i wish i always knew that like that little squiggy thing squiggly thing was the saw up
and that just always was and a always meant one thing and that's like not having that is like
it's just a bridge too far and it's not a i still like it and i think what it does is
fucking amazing and worthwhile i just wish they would have backed off i wish they would make like a
dumb mode that just did like offsets in the banks like that nothing else i would not be
mad at that because that's what i'm doing with it it's like like i've got everything set up
words i got the scenes in the axe and and i'm going to bounce between them i just i want a to do that
and now i want to do something different and now it's and it's simple stuff e g offsets some lfo
maybe with uh you know taking a gate to reset you know like that that's all i want everything after
that i'm not going to use in this just kind of mad night it's embarrassing but even scenes and
acts i keep confusing which one is the parent of the other one because i wasn't fucking theater so
i did it you know i'm the same way it doesn't make sense to me whereas like banks and presets i'm
like oh yeah like bank if you name it bank then maybe i should just remember that one is the bank
or just scratch it out on the panel i'm getting close to that it's also a white panel and their
panels aren't bad but i like you know oh that going back to this this is uh i got the silver
panels for both of these just because that's what was immediately available they've got black
panels for both of these and i'm the second i can get one a hundred percent getting the
other black panel versions of both of these um so i'm sold on it like i i can see using this for a
long time and i even just the couple of days that i've had it um getting a ton of use on it like
immediately became like i was comfortable using it started using it for all kind of you know like
even just like doing like the difference being like like all me use this for like notes and
playing a melody oh yeah so i was just gonna ask and then switching it up and going like now i'm
just using it as a cv sequence or something else um okay yeah it's it's it's great i honestly the
the list of complaints i would have at this point are i i don't have one i mean maybe by the next
time i show up all some complaints but everything's super intuitive and it's doing it what i want
can you uh make it be bipolar or unipolar you absolutely can thank you for asking
fuck that was so inorganic you got it wrong yeah i got it wrong earlier so we had to retake
um yes yes nick as a matter of fact you can go into bipolar mode um for each step uh no it's
it's it is a global global set uh and it goes from zero to eight or bipolar plus minus five oh cool
okay which i have not screwed around with too much um honestly i've been just been doing the the
unipolar zero to eight that's probably what yeah and i probably will screw around with uh the
bipolar because going into that mode it's shift it's two button presses to get into that and switch it
there's really no harm in trying fuck that's cool yeah so i think they nailed it again so far
i really like the stuff that they do like it's eight hours cold dead hands for me like i will
never get rid of that um that's really the only two products of theirs that i have but
i now i'm like fuck i need to start looking at like patome or or dessa or some of these other
products they make because i it's sort of like that noise engineering thing where i'm like i feel
like they're we're on similar wavelength and yeah this is uh anything else how much is it running
oh um no i was just looking according to perfect circuit the sequencer itself over any 420
the expander is 200 that sounds about what i paid for yeah seems appropriate as well okay but
you got to get that coupon code yeah get that holiday ten percent discount everyone knows about
coupon codes right coupon just try the last holiday and the last the last two digits of the year
it might still be working generally yeah yeah so yeah that's my uh that's my overview i might like
i said i may have more to say as i dive further and further into it but um i got a place in the
i got a place in the rack and it's and it's also filling in a gap um that the only other thing i had
close to it was that ryovcc sequencer that um is cool but i immediately moved to the video
rack it's really the only thing it's like it's really good for like audio stuff it's
it really is just it an eight eight step analog sequencer turns out not super useful kind of
be yeah opposite of that no options yeah yeah it's good for video stuff yeah you know
so yeah um i'm not gonna lie that's basically the end of my uh my list my list was talking about
the how excited i was about the elixir firmware stuff going back in the v1 solid edition yeah definitely
Nick you have uh your cheating it's the only other one i think i want to talk to you're cheating
you're looking at the spreadsheet it's true see the fucking spreadsheet being manipulated in real
time and tapping it oh shit watching it that's trippy through the cloud wow
ecology we're all it professionals in some way to ever form when i tap that input box on this
computer i see it update on the other how how does that work black magic but yeah the uh
cosmetronic cosmix though i did happen to get one of those through control mod um a couple popped
up they've been out of stock for a hot minute because he was working on the market too and i
think there may have been some component issues with the mark one or something too um but yeah i'm
super into it i've tried um a few euro rack mixers now including the pittsburgh modalor one which
the system interface um which was kind of the first like little mini console within a euro rack
modular i had which was cool but had a number of issues um some bleed and just the mute switches
were kind of funky um so yeah this cosmix is pretty rad for the most part it sounds great
like it's got that you know you've talked about the dual band maximizer before you've talked about
all this in a previous episode can we get on for the listeners a high level overview oh yeah yeah
so high level overview you've got what four mono two stereo inputs
in ox and sand that's mono um the regular output the maximizer dual band boost which you can turn
on and off globally then you've got each individual channel and i'm glad that they mark this um on
the fader throw up like 50ish is just normal zero to 100 percent and then everything above that is
distortion saturation kind of which is really nice so you've got yeah it's like pretty barebones
and mute um switches across the top which are clickless i don't know if the first one was clickless
too it's clickless okay um so you have the mark two then i do i got the new mark two which also
allows for the big differences you can chain them now okay um behind the panel there's a little
three pin connector and you can chain mark one or mark two as long as you have a mark two at the end
you can chain mark ones or mark two so you can pass that entire group of signals into the next one
before any distortion so you can get a clean input and then just re-distort everything on the whole
on the last one on the chain interesting i think you can do that with like up to eight of them or
something i have to do oh you do mark one but they're both mark ones yeah
you got me thinking maybe i'll uh swap one of those out yeah try the new jam that would make sense
does the output for each of the ones that are um a part of the chain does the output of them still
are they still active or are they sort of turned off and like there's like a master out at the end
that's a good question i don't know exactly how that works i think it just sums it but i don't
know where it would just pick that too if it just forwards it all to like the mix outs yeah yeah
that's probably how it works and you just gut it there transparently at whatever levels you upset
on the other ones otherwise they'd be basically just still be independent right yeah yeah true
so it's got to be doing that too have like that parent sum right right pre-distortion
yeah i didn't know the mark two's were even out i knew that it seems you know they're being
discussed at one point uh i thought you just had a mark one like i have that's cool i'm gonna have
to look into them yeah because i think they're all mark two now yeah it just popped up on control
mod one day they're not really announced then they announced like yeah we've got a bunch of stores
with them because perfect circuit had a pre-order but you know control smart they didn't even ship
mine until a few days later and that's when perfect circuit had theirs and stuff so they got me
success um but i love how it sounds like just a little bit of that saturation goes a long way
and can make a mix sound really good um some complaints the mute switch is and he or the person
that makes it they clarified it to say that there's like a fat in there and that's why it's kind of
gummy when you mute and unmute stuff it takes like a little bit of a second um i don't really
like that about it i will still use my muton for live shit just because that clickelcy mutes like
perfectly i kind of was as well uh the muton was one of the things that i sold when i was like
downsizing a bit get into here um but yeah i i was doing the same thing like there was a
few videos i had on instagram where like i was utilizing both cosmetronics but using the
mutes on the muton as like performance mutes right over the ones on the cotchron like they're a nice
addition but yeah they're not so great for performing mutes that's exactly what i mean
are the mutes cvable can you send gate to the mute oh oh okay switches okay yeah and it's got pan
control for the formano panels um that's the last feature that i didn't describe but yeah super
happy with it it's got like that console feel um i do wish the mutes were a little better but it
doesn't matter because the mutons there and that's fine i'm still a big fan of mine as well yeah it
sounds great um no complaints it's definitely the thing i was looking for good layout um do you
know if they change anything between the mark one and the mark two as far as the uh overdriver
distortion circuit yeah they apparently will be the cleaner so i don't know some of that was
affected um what else did they do oh yeah the sliders um they apparently made them a little better
which i'm glad because i can't imagine them being like too much worse they're not like the best
throw it's kind of like off off off on kind of thing without that much resolution but it does
the trick like it still does the job apparently that was a little more inconsistent on the mark one
and some of them were different they are yeah you can you can compare channels and some of them in
the volume will not be 100 consistent it's got um
fucking trim pots on the back for control with the level of each one so you can make it
perfect oh gosh the mark one doesn't have zero zero sold on this is a this illusion oh yeah i
can't imagine not using it i don't know what would take its place aside from yeah the
even the WMD performance mixer is great but compared to the like size costs um ratio it's like i
can't imagine going to that it would be cool if these were also vca's like that is but that's like
asking too much in a way right um and i have the vca's already in the mutons so it works out perfectly
yeah super stoked on it i'm so glad i got it it kind of was the rug that tied the modular together
a little again that's kind of how i felt too yeah i mean really um yeah i don't know
tied everything together in that rig you know i mean like i sold all my other mixing modules that i
had unless you count like tangle quartet or something but i don't really use that as a sub mixer even
though you can like that's more like not an attenuator vca dedicated for me totally um
and i love i never use the mix out on the tangle yeah i don't think i've ever touched it oh yeah i
have a few times um no generally i don't though i just got mine drinks right beside my stereo mix
from the FACO that's where mine generally was too and that was actually kind of a plan um i was
hoping to not in a way use the muton for the mutes um but it it doesn't really matter at the end of
the day mutons i think are hard to come by now they're discontinued for some reason i don't know why
it's such a like a good um module maybe they just couldn't get the part anymore or something maybe
not everyone recognized what a great module it is and it didn't sell well it wouldn't be the first
thing that people didn't figure out why they needed it yeah it's got this weird like purple and blue
panel color accent too and i really fucking love that i don't know wish more things were like i've
been on a purple kick i'm weird purple same here i mean not with like modular stuff but just in
general uh like i've realized like uh when i've been doing videos stuff recently oh purple just
leaning on like leaning into it yeah i don't know why it's a weird color i'm like i haven't even
like enjoyed a pair of shoes in a long time i just fucking love that color it makes me yeah purple
i feel like purple is a very psychedelic color yeah definitely like stir something in the brain
you know like i even like like pastel purple too like this like lilac shit i'm like yeah yeah
fucking right i don't know i don't know what to do we should probably let this up this might mean
something yeah maybe we're having some issues more more issues than normal that i would believe
yeah um those are gonna talk about knob con are we going to knob con who could tell knob con
it's a good question so i know i feel about that what my main my main worry is that there's
nothing going to be there that it's too late for anyone to really organize a significant trip like
this but like the result of that could be um there's not so much focus on manufacturers and like the
show space and it basically turns into like a synth meat instead like it was for the first year or two
that would be really cool like the potential for this to turn into like a knob con that we would
actually have fun at is i think a little bit better than it was as it got more and more focused on
like shows and reveals and the manufacturer focus um that's where i'm at and you know i'm vaccinated
i assume we're gonna have a booster between now and then i i think we always do a very good job
of entertaining ourselves without questions so i probably find a way to do that this time too
plus it's chicago things are starting to pop off again there's no reason why we can't just
hit the shit during the day and then just grab the fucking chicago for the evening and
fuck truth find something going on you know the worst case scenario was this convention is
terrible and we have a hotel room and we just go hang out in chicago all weekend yeah that's really
like the absolute worst it could happen yeah i mean it's a long drive to you know to gamble on but
truth it's been it's been two years since we've made that drive right yeah i was like we could do it
i'm kind of into the idea of it i wasn't at first but yes i am but i'm kind of warming up to it a lot
over the last couple weeks i'm like you know that sounds like that would be fucking cool but um
also uh i'm kind of interested in just seeing chicago again you know i mean sure like it's been
some part of the city proper i don't think we've done that in a long time aside from like stopping
at uh a place to eat right right um yeah i'd be into it if you guys are i'm i think i'm into it
and it'll give us something to complain about when we get back right up so it's all about generating
content we are content creators and influencers or we could try to do an episode one there
we always say always say that but it never works and i think we all know why
because we get like you're like because we're getting white girl wasted at the at the fucking
metal bar okay we're gonna go back and we're gonna record no no that's absolutely not what
we're doing all right we're gonna go downstairs with the shitty rave and then we're gonna come back
up and we're gonna record nope no damn listeners we're probably gonna be at knobcon look us up
you have no idea what we look like well i guess there's pictures of us i remember i i fucking
hate that picture we need a new goddamn picture oh yeah yeah i'd be into it i look so miserable in that
picture i look properly miserable in that picture i love it i mean i'm gonna look i'm gonna try
look the same yeah it captures me yeah no well it doesn't capture me i look like yeah i don't know
i guess it does well i mean there's nothing to stop here fucking alien mutant there's nothing
stopping us from taking a new picture of ourselves that's true we should get someone who has like a
fancy camera to make like a like our like resident advisor level like promo shot like like a like a
black background we sort of fade into it yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah under under a bridge
just all in a different pose all looking in a different direction oh oh oh yeah wait wait you're
gonna do it yeah yeah yeah you'll be absolutely okay i'm yeah i'm i'm i'm on board with this
i feel like i'm something we got to do in the fall though because we all have to wear a hoodie for
sure yeah yeah yeah i don't i don't look my best in the summer i'm just gonna be sweating there's
like no way for that to stop you two look fine i'm just do my hair is a little fucking poof ball
one side you know hate it but it's kind of under control right now a little bit but not really
if you told me you wouldn't intend to do that i would have believed it i just saw we'll go
my son all right i worked i looked anywhere it's a good enough i mean this is after wearing like a
fucking VR helmet on it for six hours straight and somehow still managed to be somewhat kempt looking
at me i wouldn't guess that yeah
so is that it all right one more thing oh what you got
riddish noise electronics oh yes cascading fed amplifier model pretty excited about
well let let everybody excited about let everyone know what is it so first off it doesn't have like
a proper name that i've seen they're literally just calling it cascading fed amplifier so i have
a proposal um we can call it the uh the the cas feta cas feta like feta like the cheese cas
feta yeah it's feta okay cas feta kind of like enosque yeah cas feta cas feta fucking monster
accent on the first part you cas feta cas feta what do you think is that is that good
until you want to be the yeah no that's nice yeah damn it um basic overview and that's just what
i've been able to glean from the uh instagram demos uh just four channels of amplification um
with dedicated feedback knob for each channel and cv control for each feedback channel um and
from what i can tell a basic like two band eq at the time for sub and high end frequencies um
each of those two band channels has a button next to it with like a little circle so i'm guessing
that is where the feedback on off is coming from like maybe you can only feedback the high channels
or uh low channels if you want or both or none it's not like a different mode i'm not entirely
sure okay um that that could also be what switches it because he uh British know electronics
make a ansem set in a post in a comment that you can use it in the cascading mode or
stereo mode maybe that's what the channels are doing let's firely sure yeah um but yeah the
conceptually i i fucking love it like it's it reminds me very much of how i use my mackeys you
know me four channels of cascading preamps with basic two channel eq in between each channel and
i usually have a channel dedicated for feedback um this is like that but in a compact module and
cv control of the feedback which is just fucking mind blowing me because
there really isn't much out there that offers cv over feedback control unless you're you know
using a bunch of other shit like vca's and stuff the dark matter dark matter does it but
that's only one channel you know i mean the whole module only one channel right and this
the fact that you can have four stacked on each other like that's
in my opinion you know i mean the way i fuck with shit that is where a lot of the magic
comes from when you push preamps into interesting territory is to stack them you know i mean you
start layering it and you have feedback in between and it just makes the whole system unstable you
know i mean that's yeah that's the shit that i fucking love and like this that's what always
kind of bothered me about dark matter it didn't feel like it was offering me much over what i
could already accomplish with my mixers and vca or my mackey right i mean the cross-fighter was
cool novelty but overall i didn't really dig the sound of the dark matter it sounded a little too
nasally for me as far as the overdraw goes and the low end a little too muddy um that's just me
being super fucking picky right um well so for the um for this do you know what the preamps are
modeled on no clue okay but i'm guessing a fucking old mackey probably was some sort of
inspiration for this or not i i should probably ask him because i am curious i don't know if this is
you know something entirely of his own you know design or if this was meant to emulate
uh some sort of old preamps that he was already familiar with but um i'm guessing just because
of the workflow of it and how it reminds me of the mackey that this probably he was probably
fucking around on a mackey or an old similar mixer and have the same thought like right make
some module um so yeah conceptually i'm all about this the sound from the instagram demos also sound
really good to me to me even though it's in a you know a compressed instagram video or whatever
yeah that does sound good it yeah it's similar to their other modules you know i mean it seems to
have that proper level of low end and crunch on top that i enjoy obviously you're not going to be
buying this for clean mixing you know i mean like this kind of it's pretty upfront from what
you would be using this for you know and it's destructive distortion feedback manipulation
yeah the only downside about it so far is that it does not seem like it's going to be available
anytime so really what's did i give an estimate he showed me um a screenshot of some of the
component availability estimates through his you know providers um and right now looks like
some of the components if he still tries to use those components would be years uh worth of waiting
before he could like crank this out and mass um so for now i guess there's just a handful that
he's made us like prototypes that he's like making these instagram demos with they look fucking great
they sound great um but yeah i'm going to try to not get too overly hyped for it probably not going
to be able to get my hands on one anytime soon but i will say uh i think they have some of the best
looking modules in the game right now i know something about aesthetic and the knobs and
everything it's just like okay i wish more people would take a little bit of a chance like they did
it looks like very dated outboard gear you know i mean like that kind of mat gray finish
home like the chunky knobs you know i'm like yeah i dig it it reminds me like just looking at
it reminds me of like an old mackey or something you know i mean yeah look at the mat gray um feel
i liked the schwaeman modules that were gray too same yeah that was the last thing on my list i'm
i was very hyped about that it kind of came out of nowhere you know i mean i was not expecting to
see a module like that pop up right in here
Thank you.
(upbeat drum music)